# Logging Activity

You are required to complete this ungraded activity.

In this activity, you will set up the Elastic Stack (ELK) to capture data from Metricbeat on your Linux VM.  Software like the Elastic Stack is used to understand the vast amounts of data generated by a business' information systems.

We will be focused on Metricbeat for this activity, but an extra credit assignment will be posted that will enable you to expand upon what you learned.  The details for the extra credit are in Module 9.

Be sure to follow along with the [demo video](https://youtu.be/5g-7pRhL2CQ).  If you are using Debian/Ubuntu, then your questions are answered in the video.  If you've chosen to use RedHat-based distributions, many of the steps are the same or similar, but any RedHat-specific issues will require that you do independent research.<br>

**Follow the instructions for your chosen Linux distribution**
<br>

## Instructions for Ubuntu/Debian Linux
Unless otherwise indicated, you will perform these steps on your Linux VM.
1. Install Java on your Linux machine.  OpenJDK 14 or 15 are required.  Use this command to install Open JDK 14.
```
sudo apt install openjdk-14-jre-headless
```
*Debian users:* If you receive this message: "E: Unable to locate package openjdk-14-jre-headless", then do the following:<br>
Open /etc/apt/sources.list in a text editor.  You need to use sudo - i.e. ```sudo vi /etc/apt/sources.list```
<br>
Add this line to the bottom of the sources.list file:<br>

```
deb http://deb.debian.org/debian sid main
```
<br>Save the changes to this file.
Run: ```sudo apt update```
<br>
Now go back to the start of this step and try again.<br>
2. Download [Elasticsearch](https://www.elastic.co/products/elasticsearch).
```
wget https://artifacts.elastic.co/downloads/elasticsearch/elasticsearch-7.10.0-amd64.deb 
```
Note: if you do not have curl installed, use ```sudo apt install wget``` to install it.<br>
3. Install Elasticsearch
```
sudo dpkg -i elasticsearch-7.10.0-amd64.deb
```
<br>
Modify elasticsearch.yml file using:
```
sudo vi /etc/elasticsearch/elasticsearch.yml
```
Change the value of network.host to be 127.0.0.1
Uncomment (remove # sign) from before network.host.
Uncomment (remove # sign) from before http.port.

4. Start elasticsearch
```
sudo /etc/init.d/elasticsearch start
```
OR
```
sudo systemctl start elasticsearch.service
```
If you receive an error message, then your VM needs more memory assigned to it.  Go into your cloud console and increase memory to 8GB.  Be sure and revert to the original size once you complete this activity.
5. Setup ngrok so you can access your Linux VM through the Internet using a reverse proxy service on port 5601.  This avoids you having to open up public Internet access to your VM.<br>

A) Sign-up for the free account [here](https://dashboard.ngrok.com/signup). **NO CREDIT CARD IS REQUIRED!  DO NOT ENTER ONE.**
<br>
B) Download ngrok to your Linux VM using:
```
wget https://bin.equinox.io/c/4VmDzA7iaHb/ngrok-stable-linux-amd64.zip
```
If wget is not installed, install it with ```sudo apt-get install wget```
<br>
C) Unzip ngrok using:
```
unzip ngrok-stable-linux-amd64.zip
```
If unzip is not installed, install it with ```sudo apt-get install zip```
<br>

6. Ensure that Elasticsearch is running on port 9200.

Test from your Linux VM:
```
curl http://127.0.0.1:9200
```

Your test should show a result similar to this example:
```
{
  "name" : "QtI5dUu",
  "cluster_name" : "elasticsearch",
  "cluster_uuid" : "DMXhqzzjTGqEtDlkaMOzlA",
  "version" : {
    "number" : "7.9.3",
    "build_flavor" : "default",
    "build_type" : "tar",
    "build_hash" : "00d8bc1",
    "build_date" : "2018-06-06T16:48:02.249996Z",
    "build_snapshot" : false,
    "lucene_version" : "7.3.1",
    "minimum_wire_compatibility_version" : "5.6.0",
    "minimum_index_compatibility_version" : "5.0.0"
  },
  "tagline" : "You Know, for Search"
}
```

7. Download [Kibana](https://www.elastic.co/products/kibana) to your Linux VM.  From the Linux Command line:
```
curl -L -O https://artifacts.elastic.co/downloads/kibana/kibana-7.9.3-linux-x86_64.tar.gz
```
8. Extract Kibana from the gzipped tar file.
```
tar xzvf kibana-7.9.3-linux-x86_64.tar.gz
```
9. Change to the downloaded Kibana directory.
```
cd kibana-7.9.3-linux-x86_64/
```
10. Start Kibana in the background.
```
./bin/kibana &
```

Wait until you see a log line like this
```
  log   [22:20:31.804] [info][server][Kibana][http] http server running at http://localhost:5601
  ```
on your screen and then hit your RETURN key until you see the normal Linux prompt.  The ampersand (&) used above places the executed process into the background.  If you encounter issues, you can use ```ps -ef | grep kibana``` to locate the process ID (PID) and then use ```sudo kill -9 PID```.
11. First, make sure that your Linux VM is listening for network traffic on port 5601:
```
netstat -an | grep 5601 | grep LISTEN
```
You should see something that looks similar to this:
```
tcp       0      0  *.5601                 *.*                    LISTEN     
```

Next, you need to launch ngrok on your Linux VM on Port 5601 and then access the proxied URL.

From your web browser, copy the authtoken provided by ngrok and paste into the command below (replace YOURAUTHTOKEN with the actual authtoken).
```
./ngrok authtoken YOURAUTHTOKEN
```
example:
```
./ngrok authtoken 209832890423u43HJKhjkhjkaa2348932u4324
```


12. Now, you need to install Beats to ingest data from various sources and then send to Elasticsearch.  For this activity, we will install Metricbeat to capture metrics from our system.  As described earlier, you could install other Beats to capture other data.

13. Download MetricBeat.
```
curl -L -O https://artifacts.elastic.co/downloads/beats/metricbeat/metricbeat-7.9.3-amd64.deb
```
14. Install MetricBeat.
```
sudo dpkg -i metricbeat-7.9.3-amd64.deb
```
15. Enable the System metric data collection module.
```
sudo metricbeat modules enable system
```
If you get a notice that "Module system is already enabled", then just move to the next step.
16. Configure Metricbeat's initial configurations for the Kibana dashboards
```
sudo metricbeat setup -e
```
This may take awhile to complete.  If it hasn't completed within 10 minutes, then open another SSH session to your Linux VM and continue with the next step.
17. Start Metricbeat, which will start sending system metrics to Kibana.
```
sudo service metricbeat start
```
This may take a few minutes.  Once it completes, proceed to the next step.
18. Then, from your Linux VM create a reverse proxy tunnel with:
```
./ngrok http 5601
```
You will then be provided with the URL that you can access Kibana's UI from temporarily (this will change each time that you launch ngrok).
Example:
http://somerandomstring.ngrok.io -> http://localhost:5601
19. Open Kibana in your computer's web browser using the URL that ngrok provided you.  Example (this will not actually work - replace with your URL): http://somerandomstring.ngrok.io

This screenshot of my [Kibana UI](https://github.com/captainarcher/cloud-management-course/blob/master/learningresources/module9/kibana-example.png) illustrates what types of data you may see.
20. Explore the Kibana UI - use the [Kibana Guide](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/kibana/7.9/index.html) to find your way around the UI if you get lost.

## Instructions for RedHat/Amazon Linux/Fedora/CentOS
Unless otherwise indicated, you will perform these steps on your Linux VM.  Using Ubuntu or Debian is STRONGLY RECOMMENDED!  If you encounter issues with RedHat-based distributions, then you will need to troubleshoot independently.  The video demo only walks you through Ubuntu/Debian.

1. Download Java to your Linux machine.  OpenJDK 14 or 15 are required.  
***Note: If you do not have wget installed, use ```sudo yum install wget```***<br>
```
wget https://download.java.net/java/GA/jdk14.0.2/205943a0976c4ed48cb16f1043c5c647/12/GPL/openjdk-14.0.2_linux-x64_bin.tar.gz
```
2. Move the Java installer to /usr/local/bin
```
sudo mv openjdk-14*_bin.tar.gz /usr/local/bin/
```
3. Switch to the /usr/local/bin directory
```
cd /usr/local/bin
```
4. Extract the Java installer.
```
tar -xvf openjdk-14*_bin.tar.gz
```
5. Go inside the JDK bin directory.
```
cd openjdk-14.0.2/bin/
```
6. Run the Java command
```
./java -version
```
7. Ensure that /usr/local/bin is in your PATH
```
echo $PATH
```
If you see something similar to this, then move to the next step - you can skip over the rest of this step: ```/usr/local/sbin:/usr/local/bin:/usr/sbin:/usr/bin:/sbin:/bin```

If you do not see /usr/local/bin, then open your user profile (~/.bashrc) and add the following:
```
export PATH=/usr/local/bin:$PATH
```
If you don't have this file in your home directory, then create it.<br>
After the profile has been saved, reload your profile.
```
source .bashrc
```
<br>
Verify that the path has /usr/local/bin in it using ```echo $PATH```
<br>
Verify that the correct java is being used:<br>
```
which java
```
You should see version 14.

8. Download Elasticsearch
```
curl -L -O https://artifacts.elastic.co/downloads/elasticsearch/elasticsearch-7.9.3-x86_64.rpm
```
Note: if you do not have curl installed, use ```sudo yum install curl```.<br>
9. Install Elasticsearch
```
sudo rpm -i elasticsearch-7.9.3-x86_64.rpm
```
10. Start elasticsearch
```
sudo service elasticsearch start
```
11. Setup ngrok so you can access your Linux VM through the Internet using a reverse proxy service on port 5601.  This avoids you having to open up public Internet access to your VM.<br>

A) Sign-up for the free account [here](https://dashboard.ngrok.com/signup). **NO CREDIT CARD IS REQUIRED!  DO NOT ENTER ONE.**
<br>
B) Download ngrok to your Linux VM using:
```
wget https://bin.equinox.io/c/4VmDzA7iaHb/ngrok-stable-linux-amd64.zip
```
C) Unzip ngrok using:
```
unzip ngrok-stable-linux-amd64.zip
```
12. Ensure that Elasticsearch is running on port 9200.

Test from your Linux VM:
```
curl http://127.0.0.1:9200
```

Your test should show a result similar to this example:
```
{
  "name" : "QtI5dUu",
  "cluster_name" : "elasticsearch",
  "cluster_uuid" : "DMXhqzzjTGqEtDlkaMOzlA",
  "version" : {
    "number" : "7.9.3",
    "build_flavor" : "default",
    "build_type" : "tar",
    "build_hash" : "00d8bc1",
    "build_date" : "2018-06-06T16:48:02.249996Z",
    "build_snapshot" : false,
    "lucene_version" : "7.3.1",
    "minimum_wire_compatibility_version" : "5.6.0",
    "minimum_index_compatibility_version" : "5.0.0"
  },
  "tagline" : "You Know, for Search"
}
```
13. Download [Kibana](https://www.elastic.co/products/kibana) to your Linux VM.  From the Linux Command line:
```
curl -L -O https://artifacts.elastic.co/downloads/kibana/kibana-7.9.3-linux-x86_64.tar.gz
```
14. Extract Kibana from the gzipped tar file.
```
tar xzvf kibana-7.9.3-linux-x86_64.tar.gz
```
15. Change to the downloaded Kibana directory.
```
cd kibana-7.9.3-linux-x86_64/
```
16. Start Kibana in the background.
```
./bin/kibana &
```

Wait until you see a log line like this
```
  log   [22:20:31.804] [info][server][Kibana][http] http server running at http://localhost:5601
  ```
on your screen and then hit your RETURN key until you see the normal Linux prompt.  The ampersand (&) used above places the executed process into the background.  If you encounter issues, you can use ```ps -ef | grep kibana``` to locate the process ID (PID) and then use ```sudo kill -9 PID```.
17. First, make sure that your Linux VM is listening for network traffic on port 5601:
```
netstat -an | grep 5601 | grep LISTEN
```
You should see something that looks similar to this:
```
tcp       0      0  *.5601                 *.*                    LISTEN     
```

Next, you need to launch ngrok on your Linux VM on Port 5601 and then access the proxied URL.
```
cd ngrok
```

From your web browser, copy the authtoken provided by ngrok and paste into the command below (replace YOURAUTHTOKEN with the actual authtoken).
```
./ngrok authtoken YOURAUTHTOKEN
```
example:
```
./ngrok authtoken 209832890423u43HJKhjkhjkaa2348932u4324
```


18. Now, you need to install Beats to ingest data from various sources and then send to Elasticsearch.  For this activity, we will install Metricbeat to capture metrics from our system.  As described earlier, you could install other Beats to capture other data.

19. Download MetricBeat.
```
curl -L -O https://artifacts.elastic.co/downloads/beats/metricbeat/metricbeat-7.9.3-x86_64.rpm
```
20. Install MetricBeat.
```
sudo rpm -vi metricbeat-7.9.3-x86_64.rpm
```
21. Enable the System metric data collection module.
```
sudo metricbeat modules enable system
```
If you get a notice that "Module system is already enabled", then just move to the next step.
22. Configure Metricbeat's initial configurations for the Kibana dashboards
```
sudo metricbeat setup -e
```
This may take awhile to complete.  If it hasn't completed within 10 minutes, then open another SSH session to your Linux VM and continue with the next step.
23. Start Metricbeat, which will start sending system metrics to Kibana.
```
sudo service metricbeat start
```
This may take a few minutes.  Once it completes, proceed to the next step.
24. Then, from your Linux VM create a reverse proxy tunnel with:
```
cd ~/ngrok
```
```
./ngrok http 5601
```
You will then be provided with the URL that you can access Kibana's UI from temporarily (this will change each time that you launch ngrok).
Example:
http://somerandomstring.ngrok.io -> http://localhost:5601
25. Open Kibana in your computer's web browser using the URL that ngrok provided you.  Example (this will not actually work - replace with your URL): http://somerandomstring.ngrok.io

This screenshot of my [Kibana UI](https://github.com/captainarcher/cloud-management-course/blob/master/learningresources/module9/kibana-example.png) illustrates what types of data you may see.
26. Explore the Kibana UI - use the [Kibana Guide](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/kibana/7.9/index.html) to find your way around the UI if you get lost.
